This video is in 3D.
Yes really.
If you only cover your right eye with sunglasses,
you can see a 3D effect.
At least, if both your eyes work naturally. I'm sorry if that is not the case.
The effect works best on a large, clear screen,
in a bright environment, with dark sunglasses,
and a device that plays in high frame rate.
If you are lying in bed and looking at your phone at arm's length with your eyes half-closed, it probably will not work.
That also looks ridiculous.
Ordinary 3D video works by sending a different image to both eyes.
These two simultaneous images, one for the left eye, one for the right,
are called a stereo pair.
This imitates what you would see with two eyes.
You show two images at the same time on the same screen,
and uses a filter to show one of the two to each eye.
This can be done with a red and blue image and color filters,
or exotic techno-glasses where every lens becomes opaque 60 times per second,
or, in modern cinemas, with glasses that filter polarized light.
But because there are two separate images on the screen at the same time,
it is a confusing lot when you are not wearing glasses.
But this video also works like a normal 2D video,
because of the so-called Pulfrich effect,
named after the German optician Carl Pulfrich who first described it at the beginning of the 20th century.
Your eyes and your brain take a little longer to process dark images than light ones.
How much longer exactly depends on the relative brightness of the images,
but it is usually about the duration of one video image.
It's quite useful for something that was first noticed almost a century ago.
If you cover your right eye with dark glasses, the image is seen from that eye ...
with about one frame delayed on the way to your brain.
Eventually you see two different images, with one frame delay in between.
However, that alone is not enough for creating a stereo pair.
The second ingredient is the bizarre, nauseating moving camera.
Because that camera has been constantly in motion,
has your right eye delayed about one frame,
just as if a second camera was just to the right of the first ...
and sent a separate stereo image to your right eye.
Now it is a stereo pair.
If we stop the camera, the effect disappears ...
and everyone can catch their breath.
It also works by moving the objects in the frame.
That is why the cutaways had a constantly moving background.
Of course, the 3D effect is not perfect,
but your brain fills in the rest.
The Pulfrich effect works well enough to occasionally in TV programs ...
and video games to be used.
In the 1990s, the BBC broadcast a number of special 3D shows for a charity campaign,
including one of the worst Dotor Who productions ever.
- "Who is that horrible woman ?!"
But if you look closely, you see that in every shot ...
something in the foreground moves from left to right,
and something in the background from right to left.
All the time.
Because every shot has to be carefully planned, and has to keep moving constantly ...
you will not soon see the Pulfrich effect applied in the cinema.
It's just not practical for more than short gimmicks.
Like this video.
You can now take off the sunglasses.
One take! One take!
Wait, did I go in the right direction?